M joins us in our studio in Doha he's
the director of the gulf studies Center
at Qatar University maub it's good to
have you with us what do you make of
this moment where we are in ceasefire
talks this is seems like a pretty
critical moment um there's going to be a
war cabinet meeting this evening which
will ostensibly set the Mandate for the
negotiating team that is expected in
Doha tomorrow um but there have been
other moments where we thought ah
there's movement and then those hopes
have been dashed correct and since Hamas
uh Rel or what basically the news leaked
about what Hamas has suggested um Friday
afternoon the news came from Israel that
there will be a cabinet meeting Saturday
evening and then Saturday evening um the
news CES actually the meeting has been
postponed to Sunday or or Monday but at
the same time the minister of War
Gallant has called to a meeting with his
security leadership would basically you
talk about the chief of the staff and
chabak and and mad that meeting was
happening where demonstration was going
on on the street actually and they were
listening to what being said in the
street uh that meeting I consider it an
important meeting because it is a
message to Netanyahu that there are
other voices within Israel should be
listened to and those are the list those
are the people in charge in Real uh uh
issues when it happened uh and let's
remember that shabbach uh uh director
he's the person who pushed Netanyahu to
accept Palestinian to go to Ala mosque
to avoid any kind of uh uh confrontation
with the Palestinians so he wants to say
to Netanyahu there is another
perspective you have to listen I
consider that meeting important is a
brainstorming meeting so Gant comes to
the meeting today with the war cabinet
with ideas with um uh suggestions so he
can put on at the table Galant being the
Israeli defense minister so you're
saying the security establishment in
Israel has already had its meeting corre
to to essentially um flesh out their
position on these talks and Galant will
kind of be their spokesperson right I'm
following what you're saying when he
goes to the war cabinet meeting which is
sometime later today this evening
absolutely in Israel we know at this war
cabinet meeting there are competing
voices right there's there's Netanyahu
there's G as well they may not have all
the same views it it sounds like a
pretty make or break War cabinet
absolutely we already have a statement
from Gant that you know the the the
government should show some flexibility
or should you know should show some of
new ideas uh to uh face this
proposal by Hamas and also we are
hearing from another politician which J
Who basically split of of uh National
Unity uh front he was part of Gant uh
front basically he also have a strong
voice now where he he wants to be added
to the war he want to be added to the
cabinet War he he he criticized the
government there's no clear Direction he
said the military has no clear Target
yesterday he made a very interesting
interview where he basically undermined
everything net has done so far he was
saying that this war basically endless
and we don't know where are we going and
that was basically I think a Hummer on
Netanyahu uh internally so uh so it's
not only Gans it's not only laid also
there is another voice criticizing him
from the political sphere itself rather
and looking at what happened in the
military act in the military front that
is more pressure on Netanyahu uh so far
so again this point that there there are
going to be lots of different voices
correct um at this war cabinet meeting
so the policy really is is being fleshed
out as we speak between now and that
meeting something else I want to put to
you there are two meetings this evening
as I understand it War cabinet meeting
and then the wider cabinet meeting where
the entire Israeli government correct is
being ask the same question of what do
we negotiate do we agree is there a deal
that we could agree to with Hamas Etc
two levels of decision- making well plan
Netanyahu does not want to appear that
he's the person who's giving concession
or
um giving any kind of uh uh points to
Hamas basically he wanted the war
cabinet to decide come with a proposal
take it to the wider uh cabinet where
basically SM the Minister of Finance and
B fear there so that are the voices
basically always supported the argument
that Netanyahu has so basically we are
expecting whether uh radical voices from
uh the cabinet or actually accepting
what the uh uh uh War cabinet suggest to
The Wider cabinet it is Will planned the
plan from Netanyahu to avoid criticism
directed to him that person it gives him
political cover Absolut he gets a wider
approval correct he wants a political
cover he doesn't want to go and more
importantly we have to look at the
Mandate issue because today there is an
important mandate issue you me which I
mean giving more mandate to the negotiat
team setting the boundaries for the
negotiating where because in in in Paris
meeting he criticized the director of
mad why he crossed some of the
lines in previous meetings now they say
okay give us the Mandate where until
where we can move on the discussion we
are not there just to deliver message
and take a message we want to discuss
issues with details and that's another
issue should be determined tonight yeah
how much negotiating power will they
actually have when they come to Doha
corre this is all fascinating stuff
we'll discuss it again but but the the
key takeaway here is all of this is
being hammered out in Israel today in
the coming hours M thank you very much
my pleasure